the conflict between jank weaker
and jimmy dore the conflict between the
young turks
and the numerous left-wing youtube
channels that are
circling like vultures hoping to take a
piece
of the market share a piece of the
audience's
time and attention to serve the same
function of
news aggregator political commentary and
analysis
it brings us back to really fundamental
questions
about what a news aggregator is
and what the function of these youtube
channels may be
in our lives shaping and reshaping the
way
we think about politics
it reminds me in one peculiar sense
of the competition between sega and
nintendo
in my youth on the schoolyard
children were fanatically certain
that their parents had made the right
choice in either choosing sega or
nintendo
they were certain that the video games
they owned and they
played were superior to the competition
without ever really having
the experience of seeing
trying playing living with
the competition we didn't know
what we were missing out on on the other
side
but we were so convinced of the positive
value
of what we had that we knew
we felt that we knew
that the alternative was
not worth our time
now if you actually pay
to subscribe to the young turks if you
pay to support
the young turks you're paying about as
much money as you would
to subscribe to the new york times but
what what what is it you're paying for
right if you pay for the new york times
hypothetically you're paying for someone
to actually get on an airplane
and fly to libya paying for someone to
get an airplane and fly to syria or
venezuela or whatever it is
do some research report back to you
on political conditions as they unfold
if you are paying to support jankweger
if you are paying to support the young
turks you are instead
consciously or unconsciously paying
someone else
to read the new york times in your path
you're paying them to read
and sift through the available stories
and just
select those few stories no matter how
small or obscure
no matter how trivial that will
reinforce
your ideological biases
interests or tendencies the stories that
you will find
salacious or provocative or entertaining
yes
but ultimately the stories that you will
find
ideologically convenient and you never
ever get a sense or feeling
for what it is you're missing on the
other
side sanders opened up a political space
for the left
and opening that political space all of
this energy that went back for
decades 20 30 40 years all of a sudden
gets
activated all at once millions of people
millions of people
we want medicare for all we want
expansion of social security we want
fifteen dollars an hour
the fight was over whether or not you
accepted medicare for all whether or not
you believed in fifteen dollars an hour
etcetera etcetera etcetera
do you agree with sanders or not became
the basic fight
sanders loses where does all that energy
go
that energy goes into the left basically
eating itself
you get characters like jimmy dore sam
cedar
that basically have their squabble and
their fight and then there's this kind
of weird fault line and break
in regards to whether or not the person
finds themselves with cedar in his
smugness
or jimmy and his um remorseless anger
and you have these basically identities
and personalities
setting the context for the left none of
this has to do with policy
none of it has to do with policy and at
this point
i am somewhat derisive of all of it all
of it
has everything to do with identity
politics and
wokeness that they don't like to call
wokeness but that's basically
what it is for this
subset of the left whether it's the tyt
crowd
the jimmy door crowd or the sound cedar
pro if you
check the front page of the young turks
today
one of their lead news stories
is that a politician used the n-word
a politician in tarrant
alabama local
city council in tarrant
alabama population 6000
happen to have a camera running
when one of their elected officials used
the n-word
and that's news on the young turks
do you think you'd hear about that if
you subscribe to the new york times
do you think that would even make the
state capital
paper in alabama
do you see what's going on here now
i did an interesting sort of test to put
this into comparative context
i scrolled through every single video
the young turks has uploaded in the last
month
and search for the words china and
chinese
we've managed to go for more than a
month
without a single video and they upload
many videos per day on many different
news stories it's a huge number of
videos
including a single video talking about
china
or chinese politics one person
used the n-word and it's captured on
some kind of footage
in tarrant alabama and that's news
there's a sense in which we're failing
to question
the function of the so-called
news aggregator now if i take a look at
jimmy dore
what do i see on his front page it's one
story after another
condemning joe biden
in plain language for being a hawk joe
biden for
supposedly increasing the number of wars
in the world for dropping bombs
and various countries right it's giving
the most
unflattering picture of joe biden's
foreign policy imaginable now let me ask
you
if you watched every single video
uploaded by jimmy dore in the last year
do you think you would have any idea
what joe biden's foreign policy
is
it's possible to give a critique of what
joe biden is doing
wrong that does at the same time in an
analytical and useful way
explain to you what he's doing right or
what his objectives are
what he's trying to do right even if
he's
failing you will never get that
from jimmy dore and it's not surprising
given that jimmy dore
learned the tricks of the trade from the
young turks that the exact same thing
is true of tyt you will never figure out
for example what joe biden's policy on
china is what his political situation
in relation to india is and oh let's
really get deep and talk about
pakistan a country somewhere in between
that's of some crucial importance also
to places like afghanistan
i could go on you're paying
for a kind of analysis that is at
all times burying what are really the
most important
questions failing to answer failing
degrees failing to even
recognize the most important questions
of our time
well fumbling around for that
needle in a haystack that can get them
a hit video such as
some member of local city council
in a town in alabama you've never heard
of
using the n-word such as some
d-list celebrity saying something about
donald trump or vaccines something they
can pounce on
something they can cross-examine
something they can criticize two years
ago
can you remember this there was this
period of
intense criticism of the alt-right
where everyone on the left and everyone
in the center
took a long hard look at the distorting
effects
that social media had on right-wing
politics and they said
not us that is never gonna happen to me
i'm never gonna sign up for one of these
small narrow ideological silos where i'm
just
fed little pieces of disjointed
information that reinforce
my biases that make me feel more and
more confident of my own agenda without
calling into question
any of my assumptions it happened
it's happening right now and if you
really look at
the breakdown of the left wing on
youtube if you look at
the young turks versus jimmy dore you
look at the extent to which
people are willingly and eagerly signing
up
to get the very specific left-wing
message from jimmy dore
the message that alexandria
ocasio-cortez
is not left-wing enough the message that
joe biden
is a warmonger at the time when he is
removing the last 2
500 troops from iraq when he is giving
up on and abandoning afghanistan at a
time when joe biden
has just pretty much said to the saudi
arabians we're not in a military
alliance with you anymore you have to
fight your own wars one job
has actually done a whole bunch of
decisive things to fundamentally change
the map of the world situation for war
and peace in the future including
yeah china india things the young turks
never mentioned
in this context what people are signing
up and paying the young turks for what
people are signing up
and donating money to jimmy dore for is
precisely to get a message
much more narrow than what the new york
times
has to offer you and i do not hold this
up as a standard of excellence not at
all
during the year 2020 when there were
cities across the united states of
america with race riots when there were
cities being burned to the ground
when there were shopping malls being
looted in the name of defunding the
police
so on and so forth most of the time
the new york times was reporting that
the police were bad and evil and wrong
but once in a while just
once in a while you heard them admit
that the person being arrested was a
drug addict that the person being
arrested was violent
that the police officer was doing the
best they could to interrupt a stabbing
or a shooting once in a while
we heard from the new york times that
actually the left-wing propaganda
message
made absolutely no sense
and that is what is missing from the
young turks
and that is what is missing from jimmy
dore
and instead what do you get
you get a very powerful kind of
propaganda
precisely because you are never
made aware of what it is
that you're missing out on well this
right here
well this is the sega master system i
have a lot of love for the sega master
system i actually played one of these
before i played an nes
big colors bright colors great sound but
i didn't quite have the marketing power
that the nes had so a lot of people in
america grew up playing the nes instead
of the sega master system
now i recognize it's completely
counterproductive
to criticize an action movie for not
being funny
it's counterproductive to criticize a
comedy for
feeling to make you feel scared the way
a horror movie
is supposed to there's a question of
what genre
these people are addressing their
edutainment
news service to and i think many people
in the audience would have pricked up
their ears before when i mentioned the
total lack of coverage of the politics
of china
and said hey you can't criticize the
young turks for that you can't criticize
jimmy dore for that
because that's just not what they do
but that leads us back to a much more
profound
question of what it is positively
that they are supposed to do
the central park five incident
that is not a minor or trivial incident
in the history of the united states of
america and it's not a minor or trivial
incident
in the history of the young turks or
jimmy dore
as youtube channels why is it
that they never made youtube videos
retracting or apologizing for the things
they said on that front
that were factually wrong and i don't
mean slightly
factually wrong i don't mean minor
embarrassments
i don't mean a typo here and there i
mean
there was a woman who was raped and who
got up from her hospital bed
and who said this is offensive to me
because she knows
she wasn't raped by one man she knows it
was a gang rape
she knows the physical evidence she
knows the contents of the police report
she knows the extent to which the left
wing lied about her experience and what
happened to her
to create a kind of politically
convenient myth
to pursue their own agenda the central
park five incident
it's not a victimless crime and the
extent to which the young turks and the
whole left wing
we want to just jump on with fabricating
evidence and disregarding counter
evidence and then
never examining it never apologizing for
the fact
if you feel that it's unreasonable to
point to
the new york times or any other standard
what a normal news services and say hey
why are there these huge gaps in which
you cover what of all the stuff you
don't cover on your so-called news show
if we
limit our critique just to what it is
that they do
cover in this very peculiar
fear-mongering role
why is it that they made this potent
propaganda message out of the
alleged experience of althea bernstein
and by the way if you watch what the
young church said about it if you watch
what jimmy dore said about it
they had misgivings they weren't 100 sir
oh well i don't know this is breaking
news coming in
and they never went back and retracted
it they never did the research
they never apologized within the small
remit
of what they define as their genre
within this peculiar
function they serve of providing their
audience with little nuggets of
information
no matter how obscure to reinforce
their political agenda
still isn't there a question to ask
about the extent to which now in 2021
in the pursuit of money and fame
the alt left is simply
reinventing the familiar evils of the
alt-right
from just two years ago
you